Add gperftools profiler (#1054)
SciCompMod/memilio: cpp/benchmarks/profiling.md

- sampling: checking the CPU stack register in regular intervals to see which code is currently being executed. Advantage: usually low measurement runtime overhead. Disadvantage: stochastic results, imprecise especially for short functions, longer runtimes improve averages.
- emulating: running the program in a virtual environment. Advantage: exact and able to measure even small functions. Disadvantage: program can run significantly longer, no real world timing results but instruction cycle counts are generally directly translatable.

These tools have been tried for memilio and are described below:
- gperftools: sampling profiler that gives reliable results with little setup
- Score-P: large suite that supports both sampling and instrumenting. Special support for parallel code (OpenMP and MPI), including tracing to find load imbalances in the parallelization. 

> - Valgrind: suite that includes the Callgrind emulating profiler; description NYI; see [here](https://valgrind.org/info/tools.html)

Reviewer: I don't like the abbreviation NYI here (I at least don't see it used often), how about 

```suggestion
- Valgrind: suite that includes the Callgrind emulating profiler; a description can be found at the [official site](https://valgrind.org/info/tools.html)
```

or something similar. Also, using callgrind is pretty easy, if you like we could add the steps:
1. Compile with mode "RelWithDebInfo".
2. Run `valgrind --tool=callgrind \<path/to/binary\>`
3. Open "callgrind.out.\<PID\>" in KCacheGrind to visualize the call graph.

Author: we are working on a full explanation. You are right that the wording was weird, improved it.

How to use these tools, the general optimization loop:
1. Run a benchmark to get a baseline runtime and identify the need for performance optimization, e.g., a change introduced a performance regression.
2. Create a profile to see where time is lost; maybe compare with a profile before your changes.
3. Optimize the code.
4. Test the functionality.
5. Confirm the optimization with a benchmark and profile.
6. Repeat if necessary.

## gperftools

gperftools (formerly google performance tools) is a suite of performance tools. Here the focus is on the [profiler](https://gperftools.github.io/gperftools/cpuprofile.html). It's a small sampling profiler that is quick to setup and use on most systems. It's integrated into our build system for even greater convenience.

Basic steps:

> 1. Install gperftools. It's available in many package managers (apt packages `google-perftools` and `libgoogle-perftools-dev`, spack or homebrew package `gperftools`). E.g., on the DLR-SC hpda cluster (insert the compiler version you are using): `module load spack-user; spack install gperftools%gcc@13.1.0; module load gperftools`.

Author: I tested it on my workstation using apt packages and on the cluster using the description here. I think the missing step is loading `PrgEnv/gcc13-<something>`

> 1. Install gperftools. It's available in many package managers (apt packages `google-perftools` and `libgoogle-perftools-dev`, spack or homebrew package `gperftools`). E.g., on the DLR-SC hpda cluster (insert the compiler version you are using): `module load spack-user; spack install gperftools%gcc@13.1.0; module load gperftools`.

Reviewer: Issue was spack specific.

gperftools (formerly google performance tools) is a suite of performance tools. Here the focus is on the [profiler](https://gperftools.github.io/gperftools/cpuprofile.html). It's a small sampling profiler that is quick to setup and use on most systems. It's integrated into our build system for even greater convenience.

Basic steps:
1. Install gperftools. It's available in many package managers (apt packages `google-perftools` and `libgoogle-perftools-dev`, spack or homebrew package `gperftools`). E.g., on the DLR-SC hpda cluster (insert the compiler version you are using): `module load spack-user; module load PrgEnv/gcc13-openmpi; spack install gperftools%gcc@13.3.0; module load gperftools`.

> 2. configure memilio with cmake variable `MEMILIO_ENABLE_PROFILING=ON`. Note that compiling with profiling enabled does not incur any runtime overhead unless profling is also enabled at runtime (see step 4), so developers can just enable it always for convenience.

Reviewer: > Note that compiling with profiling enabled does not incur any runtime overhead 

I wonder, is that also true for RelWithDebugInfo? Do they work the same?
(I am just curious, no changes needed)

Author: I believe it is, the binary output of `RelWithDebInfo` should be the same as `Release` with some (maybe unused) source code positions.
